packages/pnl/Readme.md, before:

# Setup

To install packages run

```bash
cd packages/pnl
yarn install
```

-   Create a Postgres database and run the Postgres instance.
-   Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and edit according to to [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
-   Run the following command which will create the necessary tables in the database you created
    ```bash
    cd packages/pnl
    npx prisma migrate deploy
    ```
    the output should be: "All migrations have been successfully applied." The database should have the tables
    funding_rate_payments and trades_history.

Build the project with

```bash
yarn build
```

in directory packages/pnl.

Run the PnL service:

```bash
node ./dist/main.js
```

in directory packages/pnl.

# Profit and loss service

This directory contains the PnL service codebase. This service

Service entrypoint is `src/main.ts`

To build project:

```bash
cd packages/pnl
yarn build
```

For development:

```bash
cd packages/pnl
yarn watch
```

## Setting up the price fetcher cron job

Price fetcher script `./src/price_fetcher.ts` or compiled version
`./dist/price_fetcher.js` is used to fetch the pool share token price
information. This script must be set up to run on a daily basis in order to have
up to date price info in the database.

You can use a helper script to set up a crontab entry which will run price
fetcher daily. Replace the `SDK_CONFIG_NAME` `DATABASE_URL` values according to
your setup:

```bash
SDK_CONFIG_NAME=testnet DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/db?schema=public" bash ./src/cron_installer.sh
```

If you don't want to or can't use cron, alternatively you can set up any other
tool (for example supervisor) to run the price fetcher script. We recommend to
schedule it to run on a daily basis. Make sure you provide correct
`SDK_CONFIG_NAME` and `DATABASE_URL` environment variables when running price
fetcher.

Example:

```bash
SDK_CONFIG_NAME=testnet DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/db?schema=public" node ./dist/price_fetcher.js
``


## Environment variables

```

DATABASE_URL - postgres DSN string
HTTP_RPC_URL - node http url
WS_RPC_URL - node wss url (for event listeners)
API_PORT - port on which the REST API will be exposed on
SDK_CONFIG_NAME=testnet

```

DATABASE_URL:

-   Create an empty postgres database my_db
-   The URL is of the form `postgresql://username:password@host:port/databaseName`, e.g., `postgresql://postgres:postgres@host:5432/my_db`
-   What port? By default, PostgreSQL runs on port number 5432. If the server is running on a different port,
    you need to find out the port number from the PostgreSQL configuration file postgresql.conf.
    You can also check the port number by running `sudo netstat -nlp | grep postgres`. This will display the active listening ports of the PostgreSQL server.

HTTP_RPC_URL, WS_RPC_URL:

-   specifify the URL of the RPC for the same network as SDK_CONFIG_NAME
-   no default for the websocket-url (application fails if not provided)
-   if left empty (HTTP_RPC_URL=""), the application will choose the default RPC provider specified in the d8x node SDK

```

/funding-rate-payments (query params: user_wallet) - retrieve funding rate payments for given user_wallet
/trades-history (query params: user_wallet) - retrieve trading history for given user_wallet

/apy (query params: from_timestamp, to_timestamp, pool_id) - apy endpoint. Provided pool_id for the perpetual pool, from_timestamp is any time in the past which will be used to find nearest available price information, to_timestamp is analogous for from_timestamp for end timestamp of APY calculation. Successful response will contain the following data
{
start_timestamp - found nearest start timestamp
end_timestamp - found nearest end timestamp
start_price - start price
end_price - end price
pool_id - pool id
apy - calculated APY value
}

/earnings (query params: user_wallet, pool_id) - tokens earnings aggregator for requested pool and wallet.
example response:
{
"pool_id": "5",
"user": "0x6FE871703EB23771c4016eB62140367944e8EdFc",
"earnings": -4918.951264610514
}
Note that earnings will be returned as decimal 18 adjusted number value.

```

## Profit and loss service structure

PnL service consists of:

-   Blockchain interactions code (historical data filterers and event listeners) `src/contracts`
-   Minimal express REST API for serving results from db `src/api`
-   DB layer via Prisma `src/db`

# API

## Funding Rate Payments

Example: http://localhost:8888/funding-rate-payments/0xDEDf0dd46757cE93E0D9439F78382c0c68cF76C2

## Trades History

http://localhost:8888/trades-history/0x9d5aaB428e98678d0E645ea4AeBd25f744341a05

## Discussion M&B

    - We don't want everything upfront, but if someone searches for a wallet and it doesn't exist in our database, we need to launch some bg process which will then read the event logs of txs for that user wallet (let's say 6months in the past) and fetch the historical trades information
    - Look up at the latest timestamp for that address on startup
    - Recovery mechanism from crash of service
    - Use block timestamp when reading historical data and creating new entries
    - Events: Trade; Liquidate; UpdateMarginAccount;

### Proposed architecture

1. Functionality (code) which is able to retrieve (filter) historical logs and
   retrieve the events. This piece of code will be used either in pnl service or
   in another background process which will receive messages from the API or #3
   and start processing historical data. `src/contracts/historical.ts`
   (HistoricalDataFilterer)

    - Specify the timestamp how much back in the past we want to start
      retrieving the event logs. Based on the timestamp we calculate the block
      from which we start
    - Event specific params: user wallet address (must be indexed)

2. DB layer. Database layer is built with prisma. We inject the functionality
   into the callbacks for HistoricalDataFilterer. From there db layer
   functionality checks if given events should be inserted into db or not

    - Check the order hashes, block times, amounts to avoid duplication in db

3. Missing data checker (Something sitting between the API and
   HistoricalDataFilterer or called up upon restart of pnl service). Checks
   latest data available in database for given wallets and starts retrieving and
   processing data (via #1) if needed. Notification to check the wallet address
   data could be implemented as a RPC/HTTP call to pnl service via middleware or
   handler of REST API (providing the wallet address in question).

# TODO

--- Liquidity provision
[] Add historical filterers and event listeners for ShareTokenP2PTransfer event once it is ready
[] Add LiquidityWithdrawalInitiated event
---
```

Commit message:

share token transfer listeners and historical data

packages/pnl/Readme.md, after:

# Setup

To install packages run

```bash
cd packages/pnl
yarn install
```

-   Create a Postgres database and run the Postgres instance.
-   Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and edit according to to [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
-   Run the following command which will create the necessary tables in the database you created
    ```bash
    cd packages/pnl
    npx prisma migrate deploy
    ```
    the output should be: "All migrations have been successfully applied." The database should have the tables
    funding_rate_payments and trades_history.

Build the project with

```bash
yarn build
```

in directory packages/pnl.

Run the PnL service:

```bash
node ./dist/main.js
```

in directory packages/pnl.

# Profit and loss service

This directory contains the PnL service codebase. This service

Service entrypoint is `src/main.ts`

To build project:

```bash
cd packages/pnl
yarn build
```

For development:

```bash
cd packages/pnl
yarn watch
```

## Setting up the price fetcher cron job

Price fetcher script `./src/price_fetcher.ts` or compiled version
`./dist/price_fetcher.js` is used to fetch the pool share token price
information. This script must be set up to run on a daily basis in order to have
up to date price info in the database.

You can use a helper script to set up a crontab entry which will run price
fetcher daily. Replace the `SDK_CONFIG_NAME` `DATABASE_URL` values according to
your setup:

```bash
SDK_CONFIG_NAME=testnet DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/db?schema=public" bash ./src/cron_installer.sh
```

If you don't want to or can't use cron, alternatively you can set up any other
tool (for example supervisor) to run the price fetcher script. We recommend to
schedule it to run on a daily basis. Make sure you provide correct
`SDK_CONFIG_NAME` and `DATABASE_URL` environment variables when running price
fetcher.

Example:

```bash
SDK_CONFIG_NAME=testnet DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/db?schema=public" node ./dist/price_fetcher.js
``


## Environment variables

```

DATABASE_URL - postgres DSN string
HTTP_RPC_URL - node http url
WS_RPC_URL - node wss url (for event listeners)
API_PORT - port on which the REST API will be exposed on
SDK_CONFIG_NAME=testnet

```

DATABASE_URL:

-   Create an empty postgres database my_db
-   The URL is of the form `postgresql://username:password@host:port/databaseName`, e.g., `postgresql://postgres:postgres@host:5432/my_db`
-   What port? By default, PostgreSQL runs on port number 5432. If the server is running on a different port,
    you need to find out the port number from the PostgreSQL configuration file postgresql.conf.
    You can also check the port number by running `sudo netstat -nlp | grep postgres`. This will display the active listening ports of the PostgreSQL server.

HTTP_RPC_URL, WS_RPC_URL:

-   specifify the URL of the RPC for the same network as SDK_CONFIG_NAME
-   no default for the websocket-url (application fails if not provided)
-   if left empty (HTTP_RPC_URL=""), the application will choose the default RPC provider specified in the d8x node SDK

```

/funding-rate-payments (query params: user_wallet) - retrieve funding rate payments for given user_wallet
/trades-history (query params: user_wallet) - retrieve trading history for given user_wallet

/apy (query params: from_timestamp, to_timestamp, pool_id) - apy endpoint. Provided pool_id for the perpetual pool, from_timestamp is any time in the past which will be used to find nearest available price information, to_timestamp is analogous for from_timestamp for end timestamp of APY calculation. Successful response will contain the following data
{
start_timestamp - found nearest start timestamp
end_timestamp - found nearest end timestamp
start_price - start price
end_price - end price
pool_id - pool id
apy - calculated APY value
}

/earnings (query params: user_wallet, pool_id) - tokens earnings aggregator for requested pool and wallet.
example response:
{
"pool_id": "5",
"user": "0x6FE871703EB23771c4016eB62140367944e8EdFc",
"earnings": -4918.951264610514
}
Note that earnings will be returned as decimal 18 adjusted number value.

```

## Profit and loss service structure

PnL service consists of:

-   Blockchain interactions code (historical data filterers and event listeners) `src/contracts`
-   Minimal express REST API for serving results from db `src/api`
-   DB layer via Prisma `src/db`

# API

## Funding Rate Payments

Example: http://localhost:8888/funding-rate-payments/0xDEDf0dd46757cE93E0D9439F78382c0c68cF76C2

## Trades History

http://localhost:8888/trades-history/0x9d5aaB428e98678d0E645ea4AeBd25f744341a05

## Discussion M&B

    - We don't want everything upfront, but if someone searches for a wallet and it doesn't exist in our database, we need to launch some bg process which will then read the event logs of txs for that user wallet (let's say 6months in the past) and fetch the historical trades information
    - Look up at the latest timestamp for that address on startup
    - Recovery mechanism from crash of service
    - Use block timestamp when reading historical data and creating new entries
    - Events: Trade; Liquidate; UpdateMarginAccount;

### Proposed architecture

1. Functionality (code) which is able to retrieve (filter) historical logs and
   retrieve the events. This piece of code will be used either in pnl service or
   in another background process which will receive messages from the API or #3
   and start processing historical data. `src/contracts/historical.ts`
   (HistoricalDataFilterer)

    - Specify the timestamp how much back in the past we want to start
      retrieving the event logs. Based on the timestamp we calculate the block
      from which we start
    - Event specific params: user wallet address (must be indexed)

2. DB layer. Database layer is built with prisma. We inject the functionality
   into the callbacks for HistoricalDataFilterer. From there db layer
   functionality checks if given events should be inserted into db or not

    - Check the order hashes, block times, amounts to avoid duplication in db

3. Missing data checker (Something sitting between the API and
   HistoricalDataFilterer or called up upon restart of pnl service). Checks
   latest data available in database for given wallets and starts retrieving and
   processing data (via #1) if needed. Notification to check the wallet address
   data could be implemented as a RPC/HTTP call to pnl service via middleware or
   handler of REST API (providing the wallet address in question).

# TODO

--- Liquidity provision
[] Make sure cron_job installer works if we install it twice
[] Share P2P event is actually P2PTransfer, listen to all share token cotracts
    - Historical data is also needed
    - And event listeners
    - Use market data and retrieve all contract addresses from there
[] Add LiquidityWithdrawalInitiated event
[] LiquidityWithdrawalInitiated should be for another endpoint and not in the earnings entries
---
```
